README.md, before:

# Token Trading Table - Axiom Trade Replica

A pixel-perfect replica of Axiom Trade's token discovery table built with Next.js 14, TypeScript, and Tailwind CSS.

## 🌐 Live Demo

**🚀 [View Live Application](https://token-trading-table-snowy.vercel.app/)**

**📂 [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/mayank123hangsh00/token-trading-table)**

## 🚀 Features

### Core Functionality
- ✅ **Three Token Categories**: New Pairs, Final Stretch, and Migrated
- ✅ **Real-time Price Updates**: WebSocket simulation with smooth color transitions
- ✅ **Interactive Components**: Tooltips, popovers, modals, and sorting
- ✅ **Advanced Filtering**: Filter by chain, verified status, and trending tokens
- ✅ **Responsive Design**: Fully responsive down to 320px width

### Technical Highlights
- ⚡ **Performance Optimized**: Memoized components, no layout shifts, <100ms interactions
- 🎨 **Pixel-Perfect UI**: Modern dark theme with gradients and glass morphism
- 🔄 **State Management**: Redux Toolkit for complex state
- 📡 **Data Fetching**: React Query for efficient data management
- ♿ **Accessibility**: Radix UI components for WCAG compliance
- 🎭 **Animations**: Smooth transitions and micro-interactions

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Framework**: Next.js 14 (App Router)
- **Language**: TypeScript (strict mode)
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS
- **State Management**: Redux Toolkit
- **Data Fetching**: TanStack React Query
- **UI Components**: Radix UI
- **Icons**: Lucide React

## 📦 Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/mayank123hangsh00/token-trading-table.git
cd token-trading-table

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Run development server
npm run dev

# Build for production
npm run build

# Start production server
npm start
```

## 🏗️ Project Structure

```
token-trading-table/
├── app/
│   ├── layout.tsx          # Root layout with providers
│   ├── page.tsx            # Main page component
│   └── globals.css         # Global styles and animations
├── components/
│   ├── providers/
│   │   ├── ReduxProvider.tsx
│   │   └── ReactQueryProvider.tsx
│   ├── tokens/
│   │   ├── TokenTable.tsx      # Main table component
│   │   ├── TokenRow.tsx        # Individual token row
│   │   ├── TableHeader.tsx     # Sortable header
│   │   ├── TokenDetailsModal.tsx
│   │   └── TokenFilters.tsx
│   └── ui/
│       ├── dialog.tsx
│       ├── popover.tsx
│       ├── tooltip.tsx
│       └── skeleton.tsx
├── hooks/
│   ├── useRedux.ts         # Typed Redux hooks
│   └── useWebSocket.ts     # WebSocket simulation
├── lib/
│   ├── utils.ts            # Utility functions
│   └── mock-data.ts        # Mock data generator
├── store/
│   ├── index.ts            # Redux store
│   └── tokenSlice.ts       # Token state slice
├── types/
│   └── token.ts            # TypeScript interfaces
└── tailwind.config.ts      # Tailwind configuration
```

## 🎯 Key Features Breakdown

### 1. Token Categories (10%)
- **New Pairs**: Recently launched tokens
- **Final Stretch**: Tokens nearing migration
- **Migrated**: Successfully migrated tokens

### 2. Interactive Components (25%)
- **Tooltips**: Hover information for chains, verified badges, trending indicators
- **Popovers**: Detailed liquidity information
- **Modals**: Full token details with stats and actions
- **Sorting**: Click headers to sort by any column

### 3. Real-time Updates (35%)
- WebSocket simulation updates 1-3 random tokens every 2-5 seconds
- Smooth color transitions on price changes (green for up, red for down)
- No layout shifts during updates

### 4. Pixel-Perfect Design (25%)
- Modern dark theme with gradient backgrounds
- Glass morphism effects
- Smooth animations and transitions
- Custom scrollbar styling
- Responsive layout with breakpoints

### 5. Code Quality (30%)
- Atomic component architecture
- Comprehensive TypeScript typing
- Memoized components for performance
- Reusable hooks and utilities
- DRY principles throughout

## 🎨 Design System

### Colors
- **Primary**: Blue gradient (#667eea → #764ba2)
- **Success**: Green (#10b981)
- **Danger**: Red (#ef4444)
- **Background**: Black with gray gradients
- **Text**: White with gray variants

### Typography
- **Font**: Inter (Google Fonts)
- **Sizes**: Responsive scale from 12px to 32px

### Spacing
- Consistent 4px grid system
- Responsive padding and margins

## 📊 Performance Metrics

- **Lighthouse Score**: Target ≥90 (mobile & desktop)
- **Interaction Time**: <100ms
- **Layout Shifts**: Zero CLS
- **Bundle Size**: Optimized with code splitting

## 🔧 Development

### Available Scripts

```bash
npm run dev          # Start development server
npm run build        # Build for production
npm run start        # Start production server
npm run lint         # Run ESLint
```

### Environment Variables

No environment variables required for the demo. All data is mocked locally.

## 📱 Responsive Breakpoints

- **Mobile**: 320px - 640px
- **Tablet**: 641px - 1024px
- **Desktop**: 1025px+

## 🎥 Demo Video

[Link to YouTube demo video - 1-2 minutes]

## 🚀 Deployment

### Vercel Deployment

```bash
# Install Vercel CLI
npm i -g vercel

# Deploy
vercel
```

Or connect your GitHub repository to Vercel for automatic deployments.

**Live Demo**: https://token-trading-table-snowy.vercel.app/

## 📸 Screenshots

### Desktop View
![Desktop View](./screenshots/desktop.png)

### Tablet View
![Tablet View](./screenshots/tablet.png)

### Mobile View
![Mobile View](./screenshots/mobile.png)

## 🧪 Testing

The application includes:
- Type safety with TypeScript strict mode
- Component memoization for performance
- Error boundaries for graceful error handling
- Loading states for better UX

## 📝 License

MIT License - feel free to use this project for learning and development.

## 👨‍💻 Author

Built as a technical assessment demonstrating:
- Advanced React/Next.js patterns
- State management expertise
- UI/UX design skills
- Performance optimization
- Clean code architecture

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Design inspiration: [Axiom Trade](https://axiom.trade/pulse)
- UI Components: [Radix UI](https://www.radix-ui.com/)
- Icons: [Lucide](https://lucide.dev/)

---

**Note**: This is a demonstration project built for educational purposes. All token data is mocked and not connected to real blockchain networks.

Commit message:

docs: add YouTube demo video link to README
- Added link to demo video: https://youtu.be/xppjf3_Sabg
- Video demonstrates all features including real-time updates, sorting, filtering, and responsive design
- Final deliverable completed

README.md, after:

# Token Trading Table - Axiom Trade Replica

A pixel-perfect replica of Axiom Trade's token discovery table built with Next.js 14, TypeScript, and Tailwind CSS.

## 🌐 Live Demo

**🚀 [View Live Application](https://token-trading-table-snowy.vercel.app/)**

**📂 [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/mayank123hangsh00/token-trading-table)**

## 🚀 Features

### Core Functionality
- ✅ **Three Token Categories**: New Pairs, Final Stretch, and Migrated
- ✅ **Real-time Price Updates**: WebSocket simulation with smooth color transitions
- ✅ **Interactive Components**: Tooltips, popovers, modals, and sorting
- ✅ **Advanced Filtering**: Filter by chain, verified status, and trending tokens
- ✅ **Responsive Design**: Fully responsive down to 320px width

### Technical Highlights
- ⚡ **Performance Optimized**: Memoized components, no layout shifts, <100ms interactions
- 🎨 **Pixel-Perfect UI**: Modern dark theme with gradients and glass morphism
- 🔄 **State Management**: Redux Toolkit for complex state
- 📡 **Data Fetching**: React Query for efficient data management
- ♿ **Accessibility**: Radix UI components for WCAG compliance
- 🎭 **Animations**: Smooth transitions and micro-interactions

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Framework**: Next.js 14 (App Router)
- **Language**: TypeScript (strict mode)
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS
- **State Management**: Redux Toolkit
- **Data Fetching**: TanStack React Query
- **UI Components**: Radix UI
- **Icons**: Lucide React

## 📦 Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/mayank123hangsh00/token-trading-table.git
cd token-trading-table

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Run development server
npm run dev

# Build for production
npm run build

# Start production server
npm start
```

## 🏗️ Project Structure

```
token-trading-table/
├── app/
│   ├── layout.tsx          # Root layout with providers
│   ├── page.tsx            # Main page component
│   └── globals.css         # Global styles and animations
├── components/
│   ├── providers/
│   │   ├── ReduxProvider.tsx
│   │   └── ReactQueryProvider.tsx
│   ├── tokens/
│   │   ├── TokenTable.tsx      # Main table component
│   │   ├── TokenRow.tsx        # Individual token row
│   │   ├── TableHeader.tsx     # Sortable header
│   │   ├── TokenDetailsModal.tsx
│   │   └── TokenFilters.tsx
│   └── ui/
│       ├── dialog.tsx
│       ├── popover.tsx
│       ├── tooltip.tsx
│       └── skeleton.tsx
├── hooks/
│   ├── useRedux.ts         # Typed Redux hooks
│   └── useWebSocket.ts     # WebSocket simulation
├── lib/
│   ├── utils.ts            # Utility functions
│   └── mock-data.ts        # Mock data generator
├── store/
│   ├── index.ts            # Redux store
│   └── tokenSlice.ts       # Token state slice
├── types/
│   └── token.ts            # TypeScript interfaces
└── tailwind.config.ts      # Tailwind configuration
```

## 🎯 Key Features Breakdown

### 1. Token Categories (10%)
- **New Pairs**: Recently launched tokens
- **Final Stretch**: Tokens nearing migration
- **Migrated**: Successfully migrated tokens

### 2. Interactive Components (25%)
- **Tooltips**: Hover information for chains, verified badges, trending indicators
- **Popovers**: Detailed liquidity information
- **Modals**: Full token details with stats and actions
- **Sorting**: Click headers to sort by any column

### 3. Real-time Updates (35%)
- WebSocket simulation updates 1-3 random tokens every 2-5 seconds
- Smooth color transitions on price changes (green for up, red for down)
- No layout shifts during updates

### 4. Pixel-Perfect Design (25%)
- Modern dark theme with gradient backgrounds
- Glass morphism effects
- Smooth animations and transitions
- Custom scrollbar styling
- Responsive layout with breakpoints

### 5. Code Quality (30%)
- Atomic component architecture
- Comprehensive TypeScript typing
- Memoized components for performance
- Reusable hooks and utilities
- DRY principles throughout

## 🎨 Design System

### Colors
- **Primary**: Blue gradient (#667eea → #764ba2)
- **Success**: Green (#10b981)
- **Danger**: Red (#ef4444)
- **Background**: Black with gray gradients
- **Text**: White with gray variants

### Typography
- **Font**: Inter (Google Fonts)
- **Sizes**: Responsive scale from 12px to 32px

### Spacing
- Consistent 4px grid system
- Responsive padding and margins

## 📊 Performance Metrics

- **Lighthouse Score**: Target ≥90 (mobile & desktop)
- **Interaction Time**: <100ms
- **Layout Shifts**: Zero CLS
- **Bundle Size**: Optimized with code splitting

## 🔧 Development

### Available Scripts

```bash
npm run dev          # Start development server
npm run build        # Build for production
npm run start        # Start production server
npm run lint         # Run ESLint
```

### Environment Variables

No environment variables required for the demo. All data is mocked locally.

## 📱 Responsive Breakpoints

- **Mobile**: 320px - 640px
- **Tablet**: 641px - 1024px
- **Desktop**: 1025px+

## 🎥 Demo Video

**[Watch Demo on YouTube](https://youtu.be/xppjf3_Sabg)** (1-2 minutes)

See the application in action with all features demonstrated including real-time updates, sorting, filtering, and responsive design.

## 🚀 Deployment

### Vercel Deployment

```bash
# Install Vercel CLI
npm i -g vercel

# Deploy
vercel
```

Or connect your GitHub repository to Vercel for automatic deployments.

**Live Demo**: https://token-trading-table-snowy.vercel.app/

## 📸 Screenshots

### Desktop View
![Desktop View](./screenshots/desktop.png)

### Tablet View
![Tablet View](./screenshots/tablet.png)

### Mobile View
![Mobile View](./screenshots/mobile.png)

## 🧪 Testing

The application includes:
- Type safety with TypeScript strict mode
- Component memoization for performance
- Error boundaries for graceful error handling
- Loading states for better UX

## 📝 License

MIT License - feel free to use this project for learning and development.

## 👨‍💻 Author

Built as a technical assessment demonstrating:
- Advanced React/Next.js patterns
- State management expertise
- UI/UX design skills
- Performance optimization
- Clean code architecture

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Design inspiration: [Axiom Trade](https://axiom.trade/pulse)
- UI Components: [Radix UI](https://www.radix-ui.com/)
- Icons: [Lucide](https://lucide.dev/)

---

**Note**: This is a demonstration project built for educational purposes. All token data is mocked and not connected to real blockchain networks.
